Some of the most popular
recent algorithms for
relation extraction are semi-supervised
and unsupervised algorithms.
Let's look at them.
What happens if you don't
have a large training set?
But what you have instead are maybe
just a couple of seed examples or
maybe you have a couple of
high-precision patterns.
Can you use those seeds
to do something useful?
In the seed based or bootstrapping
approaches to relation extraction,
we use the seeds to directly
learn how to populate a relation.
The intuition of the seed based
method from Hearst 1992 is to
gather a set of seed pairs
that have a relation.
And then iterate the following.
We find sentences with these pairs.
We look at the context between or around
the pairs, look at the words before or
after or in the relation itself.
And we generalize this context
to create some patterns.
We use the patterns to search for
more pairs.
If we're on the web,
we're searching the web.
If we're in a large corpus,
we look in this corpus.
We find more pairs, and
now we just iterate.
We take these pairs, we find sentences
that have them, we find more patterns,
we generalize the patterns, and
so on, in this iterative loop.
So suppose we're looking for
where famous authors are buried,
and we know that Mark Twain is
buried in Elmira, New York.
So we might start with
that single seed tuple.
We might grep or google on the web for
all environments of that seed tuple.
So we might find sentences like these.
Mark Twain is buried in Elmira.
The grave of Mark Twain is in Elmira.
Elmira is Mark Twain's
final resting place.
And then we take out the actual
entities and create little variables.
So we learn X is buried in Y is a Patten
or the grave of X is in Y is a pattern or
Y is X's final resting place, so
we learn these kind of patterns.
We take those patterns, grep for
more tuples and then we iterate.
And this approach was first applied by
Sergei Brin in 1998 who looked at the task
of extracting author book pairs.
So we might have authors
like Isaac Asimov and
The Robots of Dawn or William Shakespeare
and The Comedy of Errors.
So first we might find instances, so
imagine for Comedy of Errors we happen to
find these four instances, The Comedy
of Errors by William Shakespeare, was.
The Comedy of Errors by
William Shakespeare, is.
The Comedy of Errors,
one of William Shakespeare's
earliest attempts, and so on.
And now we extract patterns from these,
and
one way to do this is to group all
these patterns by what's in the middle.
So these two both have
comma by in the middle.
And now we take the longest common prefix
or suffix of the before and after parts.
So both of these have nothing before and
both of these has a comma after.
So we will extract the pattern saying,
we have an x follow by comma by and
then a y followed by a comma.
Or in these two patterns,
they both have comma one of in the middle.
And they both have nothing before.
And they both have an apostrophe s,
afterwards.
So, we can extract the pattern x, and
then comma one of, and then y and
then apostrophe s.
And again, we iterate,
now that we've got some new patterns, and
we find new seeds that match that pattern,
and we continually iterate.
The Brin approach was improved
in the Snowball Algorithm.
Similar iterative algorithm, and
similar kinds of grouped
instances to extract patterns.
And the extra intuition of Snowball
was the requirement that X and
Y be named entities.
So in the deep algorithm,
x and y could be any string.
Now we're going to add the intuition
that each of those things have to be
a particular named entity that's going to
help us because we know we have a relation
between organization and location.
And again we extract words in between or
before or after the two patterns.
And the Snowball algorithm also computed
a confidence value for each pattern, so
that's kind of a new intuition.
Another semi-supervised algorithm
extends both of these ideas
by combining the bootstrapping algorithms
that we saw with the seed-based methods
with the supervised learning algorithms
we saw in the previous lecture.
So instead of 5 seeds,
in a distant supervision algorithm,
we take a large database and
we get a huge number of seed examples.
Now from those huge number of seeds,
we have a big database.
We could have hundreds of
thousands of examples.
We create lots and lots of features.
And now, instead iterating,
we simply take all of those features and
build a big supervised
classifier supervised
by all these facts that we know
were truly in our large database.
So like supervised classification,
in distant supervision, we're learning
a classifier with lots of features
that's supervised by the detailed
hand-created knowledge and some database.
But we're not having to do the complex
iteratively expanding of patterns
that we saw in the sea based method.
But like unsupervised classification,
distance supervision lets you use lots and
lots of unlabeled data and it's not
sensitive to the genre issues that you
might have in supervised classification.
So let's see how it works.
For each relation let's say we're
trying to extract the born-in relation.
We go through each tuple in some big
database of the born-in relations.
We have lots of born in relations.
Edwin Hubble, Born-in Marshfield,
Albert Einstein, Born-in Ulm.
We find sentences in some large corpus.
Let's say we're using the web
that have both entities.
So, here's a bunch of
sentences we might find.
Hubble was born in Marshfield,
Einstein, born (1879),
Ulm, Hubble's birthplace in Marshfield,
and so on.
Lots of sentences.
And now from all of those sentences for
all those different entities
we extract frequent features.
So we might parse the sentences, we might
just use the words in between, we might
have some name entities, we might have
parts of speech tags, all sorts of things.
We extract lots and lots of features.
And now we take all those features and
do exactly what we did for
supervised classification.
And we have a ton of features and
we have a large training set.
And now we just trained
a supervised classifier.
We'll need,
like any supervised classifier,
we'll need examples in the training set of
positive and negative set of instances.
We extract our positive instances
from what we've seen in the database.
So person, a particular person,
Albert Einstein being born in
Ulm is a positive instance.
So from our supervised classifier,
we can get a probability of the Born-In
relation for a particular data point.
And now that we can condition that on all
sorts of features we can extract from each
sentence.
So huge number of features.
Most recently, there's been a number of
algorithms for doing unsupervised relation
extraction often called open information
extraction where the goal is to extract
relations from the web with no training
data and no real list of relations.
We just go to the web and
pull information out.
And here is the Banko algorithm,
called the Textrunner algorithm.
They first used parsed data to
train a classifier to the side of
a particular relation or tuple.
It's trustworthy or not?
Do they have a small amount of parsed
data where they can use very expensive
parsed features to decide
that a subject and a verb and
an object likely to be in a relation.
Train a classier that can
do that in a relation.
And now they walk through the very large
corpus that saves the web in a single-pass
and maybe to extract any
relation between NPs and
we keep them if they
are trustworthy classier,
says this is likely to be a relation
between the two entities.
And then we rank these
relations based on redundancy.
If we see a relation occur a lot of times
between two entities on different websites
then we guess this is a real relation.
And this open extraction algorithm
extracts relations like FCI, specializes
in software development or Tesla,
invented, coil transformer and so on.
Where we can extract a virtually
infinite number of possible relations
between any entities, all we have to do is
see them often enough times on the web.
How do we evaluate the semi-supervised and
the unsupervised relation
extraction algorithms?
Since all of these are extracting
totally new relations from the web or
from some large corpus,
there's no gold set of correct instances.
We can't prelabel the web with
all the relations that are on it.
If we could do that we'd be done.
And that means that we can't compute
precision because we don't know which
of the new relations we've
extracted are correct.
And we can't complete compute recall
because we don't know which ones we
missed.
So what do we do?
We can compute an approximate precision.
And we do this by drawing a random
sample of relations from the output of
the system, and we just check
the precision of those manually.
So we take some random sample, we pull out
some of the relations in that sample, and
we measure how many of those were correct.
And that will tell us an estimate
of the precision of the system.
And we can also do that at
different levels of recall.
So we could take, let's say our relations
are ranked, we got a probability,
there's probably a ranking, we could
take the top 1,000 by that ranking,
compute the precision for some sample
of 100 of those or take the top 10,000,
computer the precision for
some sample of 100 of those and so on.
And get the precision at
different levels of recall.
So in this case,
we're taking a random sample.
But there's no way to evaluate the actual
recall, the complete recall of the system
without labeling the entire database
which of course, we can't do.
So semi-supervised and unsupervised
algorithms for named entity extraction
are two of the most exciting areas in
modern research and extracting relations.
And in general, the use of rules with
named entities to extract relations,
the use of supervised machine learning,
and these new unsupervised approaches
are always to solve the very important
task of relation extraction,
one of the core parts of
information extraction.